Hello my name is Ana Gimeno from the
Universitat Politècnica de València welcome to our spanish language MOOC for
beginners i'm going to talk about a number of survival expressions
in spanish to give you a flavor of what the language is like
we're going to start with these two
the first one if we want to greet somebody what would we say
we'd say Hola, hello Hola and if we want to say goodbye say
we'd say Adiós Adiós
if we want to say please the expression that we have to use
is Por favor, Por favor two words Por favor
imagine that you would like to say thank you or thanks
we'd say Gracias
and if somebody says thank you to you
we would say De nada, de nada, your welcome
Gracias, De nada
Oh dear! and if we want to say that we're sorry for something
we'd say Lo siendo, Lo siento i'm sorry
now imagine that you would like to say that you don't understand
something somebody speaks to you in spanish any would like to
say that you don't understand them you could say
No entiendo , no entiendo
ok these are very easy expressions to to learn and to repeat
ok so epeat with me Lo siento, No entiendo
now another way of asking somebody to repeat something to say
it more slowly because you don't understand them
we could say ¿Puede repetir más despacio?
could you repeat that more slowly than
¿Puede repetir más despacio?
ok practice that expression too and imagine now that you
would like to know what something is, imagine your in a restaurant
or in a bar and you would like to know what a particular item
is because you're going to order something
we say ¿Qué es esto? and we point to the item
¿Qué es esto? what's this? ok and then they would reply
now imagine that you would like to know where a particular place
is, where restaurant is , a bar
we would say ¿Dónde está..? and then fill in that gap with
the name of the place that we're asking for
¿Dónde está el restaurante?¿Dónde está
el banco? where is the restaurant? where is the bank? ok
¿Dónde está..?
and imagine that your hungry imagine that you would like something
to eat and tell somebody that you would like something to eat
we would say Quisiera comer algo
Quisiera comer algo i'd like something to eat
and after asking bought what that is, after
ordering something to eat and to drink, of course then we have
to pay and we would say ¿Cuánto es?
¿Cuánto es? how much is it? and then we would pay ok so i hope
you've enjoyed this presentation and that you practice these very short
but useful expressions ok bye bye
¡Adiós!